
# The Learner Priority Checklist
<sup><sup>(Author: Zeteo)</sup></sup>

This checklist is meant to help with understanding where your focus should be as you learn the game. It is more or less a priority checklist. Try and get a strong grasp of each of these principles before moving onto the next.

### 1) **Understand the basic fundementals / mechanics**
  - Understanding the base mechanics of the game is crucial, for if you do not know which keys do what or how reclaim works, how can you play well?
	- Understand how to use the draw and drag mechanics, inserting things into your queue, repeat command, autogroups...ect.
	- Understand how resources drain and gain per second, and get a feel for how they drain building common units/structures.
	- Playing vs AI is a great way to learn the fundementals of the game

### 2) **Understand the differences between the factions and know what units are good against what**
  - Understand the utility of different units. Some are better vs slow or non-moving targets, some are good for quickly responding to threats, some are good for directly engageing.
	- Unit balance in BAR isn't as much about "This unit Counters this unit", but instead, "This unit is better at dealing with this situation".


		> *I can tell you artillery is weak against pawns running up to them, but that's only part of the story. What if I told those artillery are defended by a mess of Light Laser Towers?*

		> *I can also tell you centurions deal well with grunts, but what happens when those grunts avoid those centurions and go straight into your base?*

### 4) **Work on your opener, adapt to the map and situational changes, every game is different**
  - Adjust your opener based on the map, playing different maps helps you become more versatile
	- Take a look at the [Pre-Game Checklist](https://github.com/Zete0/Mentor-Guides/blob/main/Basics/9%20Putting%20It%20All%20Together.md#2-pre-game-checklist)

### 5) **Work on Controlling space and Expanding your Economy**
  - Create long queued orders for builders to build metal extractors, energy production 
	- Send Commander forward and Constructors out to expand metal production, building radar before moving into unknown territory and defenses the further away you get. [More info in this guide](https://github.com/Zete0/Mentor-Guides/blob/main/Basics/2%20Controlling%20Space.md)
	- As you grab more metal, try to balance your Energy and Build Power accordingly, more info [in this guide](https://github.com/Zete0/Mentor-Guides/blob/main/Starter/Economy%20Fundementals.md#balancing-economy-is-first-step-to-victory)

### 6) **Work on Unit Control, try to fight often without losing much**
  - Pay attention to your units, you don't want them staring into space while they die, perhaps you can catch your oponent's units staring into space instead, or catch one slightly out of position
	- Maybe your opponent has all their units in one spot and you can simply run around them - there is a lot of potential if you have radar and can see where your opponent's units are
