# The Pre-Game Checklist
<sup><sup>(Author: Zeteo)</sup></sup>

This checklist contains things you should think about before your commander is beamed down, when the game is loaded in, but not started yet. It comes in two parts, one to servey the map's terrain, and two, formulating an opener.

### __A. Take a look at the map's features__

1) **Check where the Metal is**
	- Is there a lot of metal?
	- Are there bigger nodes than others?
	- Is a larger percent of metal in the middle of the map?
	  
2) **Is the distance to your opponent long or short?**
   
3) **Is the area you need to defend wide open or narrow?**
   
4) **Is there a lot of Metal or Energy reclaim? Metal in rocks/crystals? Is it in more Contested Space?**
   
5) **What is the wind speed like? Tide?**

More Details about the terrain can be found here: [Understanding the Terrain](https://github.com/Zete0/Mentor-Guides/blob/main/Basics/5%20Understanding%20the%20Terrain.md)

<br>

### B. Put Together an Opener

Your opener should always be based on the map features, where you spawn, and who/where your allies spawn

1) Openers should almost always include taking all metal very close to your spawn asap
2) As you claim the metal nodes near your commander, watch over your energy. If you plan to build a solar, you can let it deplete first, as solars do not cost energy. If you're planning to build wind, do it before your energy runs out, since they do cost energy
3) If there is reclaim to fight over in contested areas, or you plan to rely on Energy reclaim early, you may want a bot lab sooner than later to build a rez bot and some faster/cheaper units to defend them
4) Consider Your Base Layout - [Base Layout Guide](https://github.com/Zete0/Mentor-Guides/blob/main/Basics/3%20Base%20Layout.md)

More Details about Openers can be found here: [Common Openers](https://github.com/Zete0/Mentor-Guides/blob/main/Basics/1%20Common%20Openers.md)

#### Doing these things before the game even starts will help you avoid making a lot of common mistakes and help you develop a sense of good ways to play even if you are new to a map.
